# HOST AI Hardware Attack Challenge
Welcome to the IEEE HOST 2026 AI Hardware Attack (AHA!) Challenge!

This challenge is broken into two phases, a red team phase and a blue team phase. In the red team phase, teams are tasked with inserting hardware Trojans or vulnerabilities into open-source hardware designs using exclusively generative AI. In the blue team phase, teams will be given each other team's modified design and they must use generative AI to attempt to detect the other team's inserted Trojans. Instructions for each phase are found below.

## Phase 1 (Red Team) Instructions:
For the red team phase, you are tasked with choosing **one** of the three open-source hardware projects detailed below and adding **three** hardware Trojans to it. Each Trojan must also be accompanied by an exploit, in the form of a simulateable testbench which shows both the normal operation of the design, as well as the activation of the Trojan. All code/HDL for both the attack and exploit must be generated by AI -- **no hardware may be written by human team members**.

**NOTE: Each team may only pick one design to attack. Please do not insert Trojans into multiple designs.**

The three potential targets are as follows:

---

### [secworks AES Core](https://github.com/secworks/aes)
The advanced encryption standard (AES) is one of the most commonly used private-key encryption methods used today, and this is a commonly used open-source hardware implementation of it. Of the three potential designs to attack for this challenge it has the most obvious security implications, but is also the smallest. This should be taken into account when desigining Trojans, as they will need to be mae especially stealthy.

PPA analysis scripts for this design can be found [here](./aes_synth)

---

### [FreeCores Ethernet MAC](https://github.com/freecores/ethmac)
This is an Ethernet 10/100 Media Access Controller (MAC) IP core from FreeCores/OpenCores. It fully implements the Layer 2 protocol of the ethernet standard.

PPA analysis scripts for this design can be found [here](./eth_synth)

---

### [openhwgroup cv32e40p RISC-V IP](https://github.com/openhwgroup/cv32e40p)
This is a small 32-bit RISC-V core with a 4-stage pipeline. As this is a complete RISC-V processor, it is the most complex of the potential target designs for this challenge, but offers the most potential variety for Trojans.

PPA analysis scripts for this design can be found [here](./cv32e40p_synth)

---

## Phase 2 (Blue Team) Instructions:
For the blue team phase, you are tasked with analyzing hardware designs which *may* have been modified with some number of hardware Trojans from the red team phase. In the [blue team release](./blue-team_release) directory you will find a set of numbered copies of the [secworks AES Core](https://github.com/secworks/aes), the [FreeCores Ethernet MAC](https://github.com/freecores/ethmac), and the [openhwgroup cv32e40p RISC-V IP](https://github.com/openhwgroup/cv32e40p). All Trojans detected must be found by AI, similar to the requirements from Phase 1.

**You may not use manual analysis to identify Trojan-infected code, all analysis must be done by a generative AI system.** You are welcome to include any non-AI tools in your framework to improve these results **except you may not include any tools which *diff* the design against a known good copy. Any frameworks found to be doing this will be disqualified.**

*Note: The Trojan-infected files from Phase 1 were added to projects at random. Each project can contain between 0 and 3 Trojans, and it was ensured that in multiple Trojans were added to a single project they did not directly interact with each other. No major changes were made to the submitted Trojans **except for the removal of comments which specifically mentioned Trojans.***

## Scoring:
Details on the scoring and rubric can be found in [this document](./SCORING.md).

Some key metrics to note:
- CVSS Scores: The Common Vulnerability Scoring System is a metric which can be used to numerically determine the severity of a vulnerability. Each Trojan you generate must have an accompanying CVSS score. You can learn more about this scoring method and calculate your scores [here](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v3-calculator)
- PPA Score: An effective Trojan should have minimal impact on the power, performance, and area (PPA) of your design once synthesized. We are providing a `run_ppa.sh` script for each design so we can compare each Trojan's resulting PPA with the baseline for the design. In order to run this script you must have both [Yosys](https://yosyshq.net/yosys/) installed for synthesis, and [OpenSTA](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenSTA) installed for static timing analysis. If you choose to attack the cv32e40p RISC-V Processor, you will also need [sv2v](https://github.com/zachjs/sv2v) installed to convert SystemVerilog to Verilog for Yosys to properly synthesize.

## Red Team Submission:
Each team must submit the following:
- A README detailing the following:
    - How you used AI to modify the code. This should include details on your method of interaction (API, website UI, etc.), the model(s) used, and any additional supporting framework that might have been used around the AI. *This is largely what we will be judging to determine points for creative AI usage.*
- For each Trojan:
    - Your modified source code (please only provide the files which were changed to include the Trojan)
    - Your testbench demonstrating the exploit for your Trojan
    - The results from `run_ppa.sh` (you can include the whole `metrics` directory that the script generates)
    - All AI interactions that led to your completed design.

All files should be submitted in the following format to [this Google form](https://forms.gle/JwJN311bAwS2eEQZA):
```
submission.zip
├── README.md
├─ golden_metrics
│  └── This is the metrics folder generated from running the run_ppa.sh script on the unmodified design
├─ Trojan_1
│  ├── rtl/
│  │   └── <modified RTL>
│  ├── tb/
│  │   └── <testbench to exploit Trojan>
│  ├── metrics/
│  │   └── <results of run_ppa.sh>
│  └── ai/
│      └── <all AI interactions (chat logs, etc.)>
├─ Trojan_2
│  ├── rtl/
│  │   └── <modified RTL>
│  ├── tb/
│  │   └── <testbench to exploit Trojan>
│  ├── metrics/
│  │   └── <results of run_ppa.sh>
│  └── ai/
│      └── <all AI interactions (chat logs, etc.)>
└─ Trojan_3
   ├── rtl/
   │   └── <modified RTL>
   ├── tb/
   │   └── <testbench to exploit Trojan>
   ├── metrics/
   │   └── <results of run_ppa.sh>
   └── ai/
       └── <all AI interactions (chat logs, etc.)>
```

## Blue Team Submission:
To submit each Trojan your team discovers, you can fill out the form [here](https://forms.gle/BEoonX16QpBzK6Ek6). Please submit this form once for each Trojan you detect.

You must also submit a README detailing the following with [this form](https://forms.gle/umek9mQESUk9zANx7):
- How you used AI to detect Trojans. This should include details on your method of interaction (API, website UI, etc.), the model(s) used, and any additional supporting framework that might have been used around the AI. *This is largely what we will be judging to determine points for creative AI usage.*

### A Note on Trojan Submission Formatting:
You'll see this mentioned very explicitly in the submission form as well, but it's worth mentioning here. As noted in the [scoring](./SCORING.md) document, we will be scoring the Trojans based on how many teams detect them correctly, and as such we will be using a script to determine that. As such, your submission must be in the correct format for our parser to properly understand. If the format is incorrect, your response will be counted as a false positive, which will ultimately hurt your score. **Please follow the formatting guidelines below, which are also explained in the submission form.**

#### For identifying which files the Trojan was found in:
If the Trojan has logic spanning multiple files, please provide these files as a comma-separated list.
```Ex: aes.v, aes_core.v, aes_sbox.v```

#### For identifying what lines have Trojan logic:
Please specify line ranges using a dash.

```Ex: 123 - 234```

If the Trojan logic spans multiple discrete lines or ranges, please comma separate these.

```Ex: 123, 234, 345 - 456```

If the Trojan logic spans multiple files, please put the line ranges for each file in parentheses and ensure the order of these groups matches the order of files listed above.

```Ex: (123, 234), (123 - 234), (123, 234, 345 - 456)```

## Previous Competitions:
We've run versions of this competition for the past several years at [NYU's CSAW Event](https://www.csaw.io/ai-hardware-attack-challenge). We also [published results from the first two competitions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/11169309), which might help serve as inspiration if you find your team is stuck.
